hello and welcome to another exciting
glitter tutorial today we'll be doing an
intro to modeling for absolute beginners
let's start with the cube and end with
the Tie Fighter all right first thing
I'm going to do is hit a to select all
and X to delete everything just to clear
up my scene I'm going to go shift a and
I'm going to create a UV sphere now
before I click or do anything I going to
come over here to this little popup
that's appeared this little triangle
that's next to it if I click that
triangle I get some extra options for
this sphere and I want to change the
number of faces that I have cuz I don't
need this much geometry I'm going to
drop my segments down to 16 so basically
halfing it and I'm going to drop my
rings down to eight now I'm going to
click on this sphere and I want to
rotate it so that it's facing along the
X but we're going to go into edit mode
to do that because I want to do all the
stuff to the mesh in edit mode so I'm
going to go tab to enter edit mode a to
select all and then R to rotate and Y
and then I'm going to type in 90 so that
rotates with r
90° uh to get a precise rotation off to
the side like this
now when you're in edit mode you can
move between vertex selection to select
the vertexes Edge selection to select
edges or face selection to select whole
faces you can also move between these by
hitting one two and three on the number
row at the top of your keyboard so
that's really useful to quickly move
between those we're going to go into
vertex mode and select this vertex the
front and hit X and we're going to
select vertex we're going to verticy
we're going to delete the verticy now
the first thing we're going to talk
about is how to select SE a row of edges
but go to Edge mode with number two on
my number row now if I hold down shift I
could click and select each of these
edges one at a time to select this full
circle but that's a slow process and
sometimes you misclick you can see I
misclick there and I'm grabbing the ones
on the inside so I'm going to deselect
everything with alt a and there's a
trick and blender for selecting a whole
whole Loop of edges so a continuous loop
of edges if I hold down alt and click it
will select every Edge that's connected
to this Edge in one big loop so that's a
really useful way this works with faces
as well I could hold on alt and click
this face here or I could click here to
get the alternating row around here and
it will continue until it runs out of
four-sided faces you see this is a
triangle so it doesn't know where to go
from here but as long as it has
foursided faces blender knows which
direction to take that selection so back
to two alt click to get that Loop now
we're going to use the first tool for
modeling which is the Extrusion tool and
you activate that by hitting e on your
keyboard now if you forget any of these
hot Keys they're all up here you can
grab them all in these different menus
up here so or you can also hit F3 in
your viewport and type them in so I
could type in
extrude and you'll see I've get all
these different Extrusion options and
these will tell you what are the
different hot keys for these different
options okay so with these edges
selected I'm going to hit e to extrude
now before I click or commit anything
you can see I've got these new edges I'm
just going to hit the Escape key what
that does is it leaves those edges right
where they we where they originated we
don't move them at all and it just kind
of releases them so right now we've got
a double up got two sets of edges right
on top of each other now I want to scale
them down and make them smaller so I'm s
and I'll move my mouse in you can see
now those edges are scaling in to the
median point of all those selected edges
so we're moving in like this so what
we're going to do is we are going to
come in a little bit like this and we're
going to leave a little Gap for the main
port hole all right now the next thing
I'm going to do is I want to push this
set of Faces in but I don't want to move
everything else around it so if I go at
face mode hold down alt click to get the
loop right now if I grab X and move in
you can see it's like distorting the
whole shape of the sphere and I don't
want that I want to kind of push these
in as if and create basically a new row
of faces um on the edge so with these
guys selected I'm going to use the
extrude tool again to pull that off so
I'm going to hit e and now I'm just
going to move in and Auto automatically
it's going to lock it on the Zed
Direction and I'm going to move it in if
for some reason it doesn't you can
always click and then hit G to grab and
lock it on whatever Direction you want
but I'll bring that in there just a
little bit so I get this nice Loop um
this little inset edge here and I want
to get rid of these faces I don't want
these guys so again I'm going to hold
down alt and click to get that Loop and
then X and this time I'm going to delete
faces so now I've brought this sort of
window area in a little bit now what I
want to do is go to Edge mode hold on
alt grab this Edge and hit e and s so
I've extruded and now I'm scaling and
I'm going to go in just a little bit
until I create a little lip right there
now what we're going to do is use the
next tool we're going to use the bevel
tool to split some edges what we're
going to do is we're going to go to Edge
mode and I'm going to select this Edge
this Edge this Edge this Edge this one
and this one so I've got these edges
selected okay and with those guys
selected I'm going to hit contrl B which
which is the hotkey for beveling I'll
drag out now you can see the further I
drag The Wider this gets and I want to
just make this a similar width to that
inner ring that inner lip that we've
just
created that looks about the same so I'm
going to click to commit and now I want
to select this inner lip too so I've got
these guys selected and this inner area
selected but you'll notice if I hold
down alt and click um it's not going to
work right they've got one two three
four five sides so blender doesn't know
which way the loop is carrying so in
this case I need to select these guys
manually so I'm just going to shift
click and select each
one and then I'm also going to click to
select these guys making sure that I
also get the Little Triangle in between
them now with all of those selected I'm
going to hit e again and I could just
move out it'll move along the direction
they're facing or I could hit escape to
leave the move mode and just manually
say Okay I want a g to grab and X to
lock on on the X I'm going to bring it
out just a little bit so that it's
almost all the way back out but not
quite there we go so now we got the
little window area now it's getting a
bit hard to see what my mesh looks like
so I'm going to make a change to my
viewport and this is really great when
you're doing modeling to do this so
we're in flat shade mode at the moment
I'm going to click on this little drop
down and this will give me extra options
for how my viewport rendering is done
I'm going to switch from Studio lighting
to mat cap and already you can see it
makes a difference makes things a little
bit punchier and then I down here and
I'm going to turn on cavity and what
cavity does is it's going to begin to
shade the edges and any cavities that we
have in our mesh I'm going to change the
type from screen to both and then I want
to turn up the valley on both of these
pretty far actually maybe even all the
way so now I can really see all the
edges and stuff quite clearly this is
useful for for doing modeling I'm also
going to right click on this sphere and
I'm going to select shade Auto smooth
what that that's going to do is it's
going to look for any faces that don't
have much angle between them blender
will see that and it shade it smooth so
it pretends like it's a smooth surface
the angle grows it starts to shade as if
it's sharp now let's close out this
window with the next tool so I'm going
to go to Edge mode hold on alt and click
to get this Edge Loop right here and
with this selected I'm going to hit F3
to bring out my search menu and type in
Grid fill and I'm GNA select grid fill
and grid fill will attempt to fill out
this grid now I can change the offset
just to line it up so it's straight up
and down and then I can experiment with
turning simple banding on and off to
change the way it interpolates I think
this looks nice and clean so I'm going
to leave it like that great so I've
completed this front portion now what I
want to do is add in a little bit of
extra details so let's go to face mode
and I'm going to select um a few of
these faces let's see which ones do I
want I'm going to select these two and
these two right here and I'm going to
use the the next tool which is inset
inset is activated by hitting I on your
keyboard and when you hit I you can see
what happens is it basically extrudes
and scales at the same time and like on
the surface of whatever it is you have
selected so I can bring these guys in
just a little bit and then I'm going to
hit e to extrude and x and bring them
out alt a to Des select and then shift
select those guys I to inset and bring
that in right there and then e and x and
bring it out a little bit there we go
looking good now we could add even more
detail I could h control R which is
another great tool this is the loop cut
tool now controlr creates a loop cut
what you can see as I move my mouse
around I get this yellow highlight and
it's basically showing me okay where do
you want this Loop to go now I want this
Loop to go here so I'm going to click
and then it changes modes now it's in
this move mode where it's sliding that
edge we just created up and down and
around on the surface of my mesh now
there's another thing that's cool to
know about this if I go back to contr R
and it's still in the yellow mode you
can roll your mouse wheel and it'll give
you multiple cuts and that's a great way
to create some cool detail but I'm just
going to use one cut I'll click and I'm
going to slide it in a little bit and
then click to commit I'm going to go to
face mode and I will hold down alt and
select this Loop right here and I'm
going to hit e and x and bring it out
I'll grab this loop with alt and hit e
and x and just come forward a little bit
there all right so now we need to build
out the wing so I'm going to select
actually what we'll do is we'll make the
wing and then we'll kind of build the
connecting bridge between the two of
them so I'm going to leave edit mode and
we're going to create a new
object I'm going to go shift a mesh
plane let's grab it move it over here so
I'm going to hit G to grab and Y and
we're going to bring it right over here
I'm going to go into edit mode with tab
hit a to select all and then I'm going
to rotate X 90° just to turn it and face
it up now a TI fighter has this sort of
hexagon like Wing so we're going to
build that out first I'm going to go to
Edge Mo or vertex mode by hitting one
and I'm just going to grab these two and
hit s to scale an X and it will scale
towards each other there and the reason
why it's moving in that specific way and
scaling towards is because I've got this
up here the transform pivot is set to
median point you can always change this
and it will change where the pivot is
between anything that you have selected
median point is a good default and I
tend to keep it there for most actions
that means that it's always going to do
whatever command doing r a pivot point
that's created by looking at the average
position of everything that's selected
so that's why when I have medium point
and I hit s and X it's scaling to the
middle of both of these guys so I'm
going to come here and drag a box around
these bottom ones and hit G and Zed and
bring them up just around here close to
the origin that little orange Dot and I
might grab these guys and bring them
down a little bit that looks pretty good
I'm going to hit a to select all and I'm
going to go shift d to duplicate and hit
Escape now I've got two versions of the
same thing then I'm going hit s to scale
and Zed to lock it on the Zed and then
I'm going to typega one and that will
flip the whole thing if I lost you with
that just rewatch that bit and you'll
get used to it you can always enter a
value at the end for how much you want
to do something so that string of
commands is really useful and you'll do
it a lot I'm going to hit G to grab and
Z to it on the Z and bring it down now I
want to line it up perfectly with this
other vertex so I'm going to do
something called snapping I'm going to
turn it on right here with the little
magnet icon and then I'll click this
drop down and I want to snap
specifically to a Vertex so I'm going to
switch to vertex snapping mode now with
this activated if I hit G to grab when I
move my mouse close to any vertex you
can see it's even snapping to this thing
blender will attempt to take what I have
and connect it so I will bring it up
like that and click to commit now I'll
turn snapping off okay so now it looks
like I've got one continuous piece of
geometry here but the reality is I've
got two vertexes right on top each other
in the same place and I'm going to fuse
these guys together so the best way to
do that is to hit a to select everything
and then I'm going to hit M to merge
again you could just type F3 and grab
merge but I'm going to hit M and this
will bring up a little mini menu here
and I want to merge by distance I'll
click this and you get this pop up of
here it's blocked by my text here but
now you can see the merge distance is
set to 0.1 so basically any vertex
that's super close to another one merge
them together and when we do that I'll
just undo that and do it again so F3
sorry merge by distance you'll see right
here I get this popup that says removed
two vertices so that's a indication of
whether or not it worked and sure enough
now if I click here you can see those
are unified but now with our little
scale trick there's also something wrong
I don't know if you you can see this but
the shading is a bit funny right there's
this like dark gray and light gray
blender's a bit confused and this is
something that you run into a lot when
you're modeling and you'll notice it in
a lot of weird ways you might have a
bizarre result with your bevel or with
your subdivision surface or something
else later down the track and you might
be confused about what's going on I'm
going to show you what's wrong here but
we're not going to fix it yet and I'm
going to show you what it looks like if
we go a bit further down the track with
this kind of a mistake so right now I'm
going to switch over here to my my face
orientation right here under the widgets
menu I'm going to turn on face
orientation now this colors the faces
based on which direction they're facing
and by facing if I go into edit mode you
get this little extra button and I'm
going to turn on normals and drag the
side out sides out there a normal is the
direction face is pointing you can see
these guys are pointing in opposite
directions so when we duplicated that
and scaled on the Zed negative one and
flipped it it's also kind of flipped the
direction that it was facing and this
can confuse blender when it comes to
shading and how it operates on things CU
it thinks that these are basically
pointing two different directions so let
me turn all that off and let me show you
what the impact is of this so let's keep
going I'm going to make this look a
little bit more even so I'm going to
grab these two and hit s and x and bring
this in until this is kind of squared up
a bit better that looks pretty good I'm
going go to Edge mode and I will shift
select these edges so I'm going to
select these edges and hit e and s to
scale and I'm going to come out just a
little little bit and then I want to do
it again I'm going to hit e and s and
bring it out a lot now I'm going to hit
s and x and scale this in a bit and S
and Zed just trying to get this right
might go a bit bigger make the whole
thing smaller in a minute think if the
proportions are more like this when it
comes to a TIE fighter feel free to have
different variation in yours this kind
of a shape looks about right I hit e
again and S and just come out a little
bit to create a bit of a lip and SX just
to make make sure it's thick on the X
that matches thickness on the Y and that
looks pretty good all right
great now you can still see the shading
issue but we'll get to that in a minute
all right so next thing I want to do is
I want to hit three to go to face mode
and I'm going to select these faces
right here and I want to hit I to inser
but what I'm going to do is make a
change so I'm just going to go in just a
little bit like this I'll click and
again I'll get the popup if it's not up
for you you just might see it down like
this you just need to click that to
bring it up and I want to click this
option individual you can see what that
does is now each inset is individually
insetting on each face that's selected
as opposed to being one big group and
that's really useful with inset turning
that on and off to get different results
now I'm going to hit e and Y and just go
in a little bit not a whole lot just to
bring that in and then I might hold down
alt and select this group and hit e and
Y and bring it out like that and then
let's select these two and I'm actually
going to delete those faces go to Edge
mode with two and click this to grab
this Loop and then I'm going to hit e
and grab and grab Y and then e and s and
then e and bring that in on the Y and
then e and s e and Y and I'm just
creating some variations so scaling this
one down e y bring it in s and then I'm
going to fill this hole in with grid
fill so I'm going hit F3 and type grid
fill and again I will adjust the offset
until it looks like it Lins up really
nicely cool all right great now we got
this neat looking thing now one thing
that really helps hard surface meshes
look more realistic is to have a bevel
and a bevel is when an edge isn't
perfectly straight it's got a little bit
of a slant to it and um we can do that
manually but it's better to do it with a
modifier and blender because then you
have more control in the end over your
base mesh so I'm going to click on the
wrench tab here with this Wing selected
and I'll click add modifier and I'm
going to grab a bevel and I will put my
bevel on and we'll just leave the
default settings for now and you'll
notice we getting we're getting some
really weird results look at this so
this thing looks like it shifted off so
when you see something weird like this
usually the answer is you need to flip
the direction of your faces so let's go
back to that problem and fix it I want
to turn face orientation back on and
sure enough you can see that problem has
carried through into my mesh as I've
been doing this modeling I'm going hit
tab to go into edit mode hit a to select
all and I'm going to come up here to
mesh normals and I'm going to click
recalculate
outside you see that fixed it up so now
the bevel modifier is working as
expected turn face orientation back on
so there you go so it's a pretty easy
fix which is good okay great I think
this looks pretty nice I might increase
the segments to two and I'm going to
right click and shade Auto smooth as
well and that should give me a really
nice result all right now we got this
backs side that's a bit empty so we need
to extend that a little bit I'm going to
go into edit mode go to Edge mode and
ALT to click and grab that set of edges
and grab y just to scoot them back a bit
so they incompass the the object and
then I'm going to put a modifier on it
I'm going call look for the mirror
modifier and the mirror modifier I'm
going to put in after the bevel and I
will mirror on the Y not the X just the
Y now I need to select everything and
grab Y and slide it away from the origin
the origin is that orange dot right in
the middle see the further I get from
that the mirror is equally distant from
that point so if I bring it really close
to that point these guys are going to
line up now there's a bit of a gap here
so I'm going to turn on clipping and
make sure merge is turned on and then
I'm going to bring them so they're a
little bit close and that should seal
that Gap I might scale it down a little
bit make it a bit smaller now now let's
create the connecting bridge between
these two objects I'm going to go into
edit mode and I'm going to go to face
mode with three and I will select these
six faces maybe even those down there
too so six seven eight and I'm going to
hit e and Y bring them out like that and
S to scale e and Y again s to scale
maybe a bit further and then e and Y and
scale it right down and then I want to
flatten this out so I'm going to scale
on the Y and if you notice the closer I
get to zero
they get flatter and flatter and flatter
so what I can do is just hit zero while
I'm still in that scale mode and then
hit return it will flatten those faces
now let's add a bit more detail I'm
going to select uh these guys like this
I'm going to hit I to inser and I'm
going to turn off individuals so it's
one big inset and then e and x and bring
it
forward and then I'm going to select
these right here and inset those and
then e x bring it out and then these two
I to inset e and X bring those forward
and then maybe go in so I'll inset again
and then e and x and push these guys
in I to inset e and X push them in
looking good all right great let's do
something on the top so I'll grab these
let's say and we'll hit I and go in and
then maybe grab Zed and scale it down
and E and scale it down looks pretty
cool I'll do something down here as well
I'll grab this whole section I come in
like that e and Zed come down and maybe
scale that in like that looks pretty
cool now let's do what we did with this
and add some modifiers to it so I'm
going to come over here and add a
bevel I'm going to turn my segments up
and sometimes with your mesh depending
on how you've modeled things you might
find you have better results if you
switch from offset to percent and that
will give you like kind of a Brute Force
bevel um which could be really useful
I'm going to add another one a
subdivision surface modifier now this is
one you're going to use a lot and
basically what it does it takes your
mesh and it rounds it out so I'm going
to click add modifier and type in
subdivision surface and I'm going to
turn my viewport levels and my render
levels up a bit maybe to three that will
subdivide it more and more and you can
see you get this nice rounded effect all
right cool let's bring all this together
I'm going to hit G and Y to bring my
wing over so it's lined up here now I
want all this to be repeated over on
this side but you can see our object is
quite symmetrical so we can use a mirror
modifier again and I want to mirror this
mirror modifier along the Y not the X so
I'm going to turn off X and I just need
to make sure clipping is turned on as
well and now I can grab this and Shifty
Y and bring it on over and there you
have it our very own TIE fighter I hope
you really enjoyed this process and
learned a lot about modeling and how you
can use it to really create anything you
want want with blender thanks so much
for watching hope you really enjoyed
this tutorial if you did hit that like
button and don't forget to subscribe to
the channel check out the patreon where
you can get the full uncut version of
this tutorial which is basically the
same as this one but usually they're a
lot longer and there's a lot more detail
so if there's other tutorials you're
interested in uh and you'd like to check
out the full version where I go through
a lot of extra detail you can go check
that out special thanks to everybody who
supports this channel on patreon and
everyone who supports by joining on
YouTube I really appreciate all of you
thank you so much and if you'd like to
join links are in the description below
please check it out you can get this
project file if you join patreon this
month or next month it's always
available the month the two months that
the uh tutorials come out you can get
the project files and then after that
they go away so if you're Keen go to
patreon check it out see if it's this
month and subscribe and get this and use
it all right I'll catch you later thanks
so much
bye everybody
get
woo